---
id: home
layout: default
sectionid: home
---

## Project Status

ContainerJS is currently under active development, with frequent breaking changes!

## Getting Started

The following describes how to create a simple 'Hello World' application and run it with Electron, OpenFin and a Browser.

#### Creating the Hello World app

From within an empty folder, add a minimal HTML file called `index.html`:

```html
<!doctype html>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<body>
  <h1>Hello World!</h1>
  <div>
    ContainerJS status: <span id="status">initialising</span>
  </div>

  <script src="https://unpkg.com/containerjs-api-browser@0.0.3/build/dist/containerjs-api.js"></script>

  <script>
    ssf.app.ready()
      .then(() => {
        const status = document.getElementById('status')
        status.innerText = 'ready';
      });
  </script>
</body>
```

The above displays a simple welcome message and indicates the status of the ContainerJS APIs. The `containerjs-api.js` is the browser API, that will create the ContainerJS API if no API currently exists.

This file uses the `ssf` API to handle the container `ready` promise, updating the status text when this lifecycle event occurs.

Within the same folder, add the following `app.json` manifest file:

```json
{
  "name": "Hello World",
  "url": "http://localhost:8080/index.html",
  "uuid": "hello-world",
  "autoShow": true
}
```

The manifest tells the container which URL to load initially.

#### Starting a local server

The container loads HTML applications over HTTP, so in order to run this demo application you need to start a local server. If you don't already have a preferred tool, you can use the node `http-server` package:

```
$ npm install --global http-server
$ http-server -p 8080
```

This starts a server on port 8080.

#### Running with OpenFin

The ContainerJS project provides an OpenFin-based command line tool, which can be installed as follows:

```
$ npm install --global containerjs-api-openfin
```

To run your simple 'Hello World' application from within an OpenFin container, execute the following:

```
$ ssf-openfin --config app.json
```

You should now see the Hello World application, and see the status update to 'ready'. _Note:_ The notification API
will not work unless a `notification.html` is hosted on a server. An example notifaction file can be generated by passing
`--notification [outdir]` to `ssf-openfin`.

#### Running with Electron

The ContainerJS project provides an Electron-based command line tool, which can be installed as follows:

```
$ npm install --global containerjs-api-electron
```

From within your 'Hello World' folder, execute the following:

```
$ ssf-electron --config app.json
```

You should now see exactly the same app running within Electron.

#### Browser

To run your app within a browser, simply navigate to the URL `http://localhost:8080/index.html`.
